that's the sound of a man working do it
rock that's our that's the first time
we've ever blended a smoothie on this
gym the first time you see the fruit
smoothie blended on a ballast Co
Broadcasting Corporation that's that's
Melissa I'm sure you've never seen it
before so Melissa you could join this to
this video or not but it's gonna respond
to these these two questions and you
know like part of what I do on the
Internet is giving reasonable answers to
unreasonable questions so like this one
you can see I'm gonna answer them answer
them both in a reasonable way but you
know there's this thing where the the
overall tone of discourse in the
Internet is really influenced by
trolling where people trying to say
provocative things and it's also
influenced by anonymity and secrecy
where there's this assumption that like
I don't want to admit things but my four
I'm not willing to talk about things
that I really am willing to talk about
you know I mean so one of these
questions is about basically why don't I
have a PhD and one of them is about why
don't I have a circle of friends like
still today that I used to have in high
school and university and they're both
stated in this really kind of needlessly
insulting and provocative way I think
because people feel that's the way the
internet works and I think they expect
me to be hostile and defensive and also
kind of secretive and defending my
anonymity so to give you examples for
these two questions Melissa's seeing
them on screen you guys aren't but do
you think unnatural vegan would ever
answer question I think I don't think so
you know II know and that's you know a
lot of these people they to some extent
they talk about their personal lives or
someone like a natural vegan but to some
extent there's also this weird kind of
barrier they don't keep it all the way
real you know they're not going to talk
about exactly exactly this this kind of
stuff but I'm totally willing to like
I'm totally done to me these are like
normal talks of conversation that you've
discussed in a cafe and if you ask me on
the Internet in the same way you'd ask
someone in a cafe I'm completely cool
with talking about it you know I always
feel like what's the point of being on
the Internet if you're gonna be evasive
or dishonest about exactly this kind of
stuff so one of the questions I'm just
gonna reword it to make it less
but I got one question in effect saying
why doesn't ISIL already have a PhD you
know you know I depending on who I'm
talking to you I'm talking one of my
university professors I can give a
longer answer getting into exactly what
what decisions that I made but that the
written answer I gave on the internet
was quote I have a four-year-old
daughter I made sacrifices so that I
could have a four-year-old daughter so
you know sacrifices around the time the
birth of my daughter I've never heard
anyone at any level claim that I'd have
difficulty getting into or completing a
PhD have you seen my articles quite the
contrary
I have many regrets in my life having a
child is not one of them the kid is
worth more to me than a PhD right so yes
you know it's like oh why why doesn't as
well PhD well for one thing at that time
my life was meeting the decision I made
the decision to make some huge
sacrifices including moving to France so
I didn't want to live in France I didn't
wanna learn the French language but I
moved to France and started learning
French so that I could have a kid so
that I could have my daughter who's now
so that's now four years ago my
daughter's now four years older we're
going to visit her but I mean this also
relates to something you and I've been
talking about off-camera a bit the way
planning for the future and making these
decisions relates to the fact that in a
lot of ways had already done everything
I wanted to do in my life so I wouldn't
be in a position where I felt regret
like oh I never got to see the Mekong
River oh I never got to do humanitarian
work oh I never got to study Korea
rituais or lotion or Palli in so many
ways at that stage in my life four years
ago even six years ago it really seemed
like I had already done everything in my
life I ever wanted to do I mean as you
know like that was I mean oddly that was
true of my father at some point when my
father died people said to me like old
constantly you know naturally people
said oh I'm so sorry for your loss or
sir
and I just say back look my father did
everything everything you wanted to do
and like he ran out of things to do when
you decided to go see rhinoceroses in
Africa I remember asking him like why
why did you go to Africa you never were
interested in this you know I mean he'd
already he'd been my father had been
everywhere on planet Earth except
Antarctica he'd done everything that's
not why I felt that way because I I
didn't have any interest in seeing
renowned sources but in terms of these I
really want to do with
I've done them that's one part of it and
another part of it really briefly is I
definitely didn't feel was missing out
on anything in any of those PhD programs
I was not missing out on an educational
opportunity so you know that's a real
it's really different if you work in a
field where you really feel you gonna
learn something you know something to
you that you're gonna that's gonna be
meaningful with the rest of your life
whooping in a PhD program which is true
for many people at least at the start at
least they've got the delusion that's
one thing but for me it's like you and I
were looking at the requirements one of
the programs and it required me to write
a 120 page essay and I was just laughing
I was like look man I can do that in two
weeks I'm very very good at researching
and writing papers and the professor's
have worked with at every stage of my
life have known that about me to some
extent they they don't even realize have
a little time I'm putting into those
papers just over I'm doing it but I have
a long career of doing original research
and writing up so nothing there is
intimidating to me and sure there have
been various options at different stages
in my life for me to do PhD work and now
we're going back to Canada again and I
think we're gonna ask those questions
again and again sure but you know real
life we all make sacrifices I might make
the same choice again so let's say four
years from now Melissa wants to get
pregnant have a baby I may make the same
decision again and it'll probably be for
the same factors to be like well I would
value having a child more than having a
PhD PhD is never gonna earn me any money
which was true in the past to talk about
getting a PhD in Buddhist philosophy
talking at a PhD in Cree in a jib way
linguistics you know Cree language
education or some of this that's never
gonna make any money and so on you're
really doing it and in most of these
programs maybe I'll find an exception
most these programs that look at them
it's like well these people in this
program they don't really have anything
to teach me they're really just giving
me an institutional setting where I can
research and write a paper so four years
from now I might again decide not to get
a PhD with all the same all the same
considerations okay so I got another
question here this one again a minutes
not even a thinly veiled insult so I'm
gonna reword it to be less insulting but
he's asking me well he says you have
said in the best I have said in the past
that I don't today have a group of
lifelong friends from high school
college or from my work life and he asks
you know are you just a terrible person
of course I'm
I keep I keep telling you I keep
reminding my audience I'm a terrible
person
Doce is an accusation I completely own
being a terrible person I'm not not any
to know about that but this kind of
insult I find I find stupid and
nevertheless I'm giving a serious answer
to a two hundred stupid questioner I
said I said reply no I moved to Cambodia
I moved to Laos I moved to Taiwan I
moved to France I moved back from France
to Taiwan etc and this list is omitting
many other places that were there along
the way you and I and Sri Lanka's
Saskatchewan it's just geography I had
plenty of friends and he wearing
everywhere that I lived for a
significant period of time but I kept
moving warily staying in the same place
for two years during my whole adult life
it's degress here funny example this so
you know I only ever had one Asian
girlfriend buy one Asian girlfriend ever
that was when I was living in Laos and I
remember she approached me she said oh
you know like you don't have any friends
here and I remember I asked her I said
well you know I've been living here in
Laos for less time than you have she was
living there real life and I started
counting off all the friends I had in
Laos so at that point I'm probably
living lost for a year and a half or
something I was able to count off people
had really personal relationships with
including David including some people
you you know though right but people who
work on a you know deep lifelong friend
type of people and I said how many
friends do you have because I knew it's
lie same with you like I know how many
friends you have basically and she
basically had her sister she had one
sister she was close with and she had
like one friend that was it and I don't
even you know think love but a lot of
people like that you know a lot of
people you know thought I don't have a
whole lot of friends you know what I
mean and I said you know what it was
just there it was like well I've only
been here for a short time and I got a
lot of I got a lot of good friends but
anyway sure it's a different story in
different places I mean it's it's harder
to make meaningful friendships in Hong
Kong big big city everybody's busy than
it is to make friends in Laos but you
know I've you know I really can't
complain that way but sure it was sad
for me when I packed up and left Laos
which was unexpected I got death threats
from the government I got xl's in the
country
death threats and I left with nothing
but my backpack and blah blah blah so
dramatic situation when I left Laos I
lost those friends and sure I would
prefer if those people had stayed and
doesn't your bets now what happened so
if you keep moving you keep losing
friends every time you move that is my
experience in life and of course it
wouldn't be the same if you were just
moving from Detroit to Philadelphia you
know we're talking about leaving Laos
and moving to England and then moving
from England to Cambodia these are big
big dislocations and you know also my
career my line of work changing with
each of those relocations and
dislocations alright so let the guy know
look this this is uh this is an
offensive you know his question was
really stated in an offensive and
insulting way and I said look if you
watch my channel you know my reasons for
being on the internet I'm here
fundamentally to make connections with
other vegans who can cooperate me in the
future of the vegan movement so these
kinds of games what you're playing here
I don't play and that's how I feel but I
think in a lot of ways I'm still out
here doing real talk I've had so many
negative experience in the internet I
mean you know I'm not shell-shocked I'm
not self pitying but sure I mean I've
suffered the slings and arrows of
defamation from durianrider and all this
crap but fundamentally I mean somebody's
got to keep it real and the rewards for
my keeping it real include by the way
that I met my wonderful girlfriend
Melissa you know for real the when I
first met Melissa you really knew who I
was and you knew from my youtube videos
and you knew from reading my essays and
you knew from you know it's not like
there's an illusion and then you get
behind the illusion and finally who I
really am know this is who I really am
and I think I think it's people like me
we risk the most on the internet but we
also by far get the best rewards on the
Internet and if you're using YouTube if
you're using the Internet itself I
encourage you to keep it real and even
if you get questions that are really
just insults even if you get this kind
of harassment do your best to offer
serious answers to silly questions and
try to improve the tone and caliber of
our discourse here in the digital fecund
demi-monde I'm out